welcome back everyone to Abdul tek-tips
today I'll teach you how to create a
small minecraft server so let's get into
it
step 1 go to minecraft.net slash
download find and download the
multiplayer server for your operating
system the link will be in the
description step 2 locate the minecraft
server file you downloaded and drag it
to where you want the server to be setup
create a folder with the name of your
choice and drag the multiplayer server
file into it step 3
double-click the minecraft server file
and wait till it creates all the
necessary files when the files have been
created exit out of the program step 4
go to your Windows Start menu and type
in CMD click on it then type ipconfig
find your ipv4 address then write it
down or keep a mental note of it
step 5 open up your web browser and go
to your ruta settings this may vary for
different route tests but the most
familiar one is 192.168.0.1 enter your
user name and password and you should be
ready if you cannot find it take a look
at the back of your router step 6
find your port forwarding and triggering
settings if you cannot find them please
Google it or refer to your written
manual step 7 when you have found your
port settings you'll be able to add a
rule set the name to whatever you want
type in the store and end poor section
to five five six five - five five six
five is minecraft default server port
leave protocol as it is and said that IP
address the one that you have found in
your CMD mine was 192.168.0.0
now you have to save the changes I'm
going to port triggering here you will
do the same thing set the name to
whatever you want set both trigger
ranges and target ranges to 25565 leave
the protocol the same and save your
changes
now go onto google and search for what
is my IP it will then show you your
public IP address this is the address
people will be joining once again write
this down or keep a mental note of it
step 9 go into the folder where you
created your minecraft server open the
properties with notepad and change it to
whatever you want I will make another
tutorial soon on how to change all of
this step 10 finally double-click your
server file then open your minecraft go
to the multiplayer section type in your
public IP address and you should be good
to go
thanks for watching this 10 steps
tutorial hope you guys enjoyed don't
forget to subscribe and I'll see you
guys in the next one